CHAPTER TWO
YOUR TASTE “BUDS”

When your heart is set and your sub-conscious mind is focused; your conscious mind will come up with reasons to continue or quit whatever it is you are achieving. For example, when someone is in real love his or her heart is set on some object, usually another person. The heart literally beats faster and 
stronger, sending more oxygen to the rest of the organs, including the brain. 

The setting of the heart controls the sub-conscious mind, which in turn suggests all the ways in which to win the object and delivers those ideas to the conscious mind. This mechanism works if the object of desire is a person, material object or life goal.

When you set your heart long and strong enough, the object of desire has to come to you in some form or fashion. How long it stays with you is another factor and is covered later in the book.

What does this have to do with your taste buds?

In the last chapter we covered some truths about your body and how to think about its reality. Another analogy we could use as a tool to understand the body is if you imagine your body is a cast of characters in a story. Each part is like its own person and has its own part to play. Each organ has a job to do to help the other organs to survive. Your lungs bring in air and filter out the oxygen and pass it to your blood. Your blood delivers the oxygen to all the other organs consistently on time. Your heart is the propulsion system for your blood, which allows it to flow. Your brain helps to regulate and coordinate the involuntary timing of all these characters.
Every story must have an antagonist or some ‘bad guy’ who foils the story and provides a challenge to overcome. In this story, the antagonist is your tongue.

Your tongue and its minions the taste buds actually serve a valid purpose. As a baby, taste buds are what help us discern what is food and what is not. They also save us from consuming something poisonous or disgusting. However, due to high sugar diets... most peoples’ taste buds have been hijacked to only seek out pleasure without any regard to the purpose of the food. Today the tongue has turned into a selfish monster and does not care about the other organs of the body. It will only seek out a taste that can provide pleasure and does not care about the implications as long as it gets its fix!
This anomaly can go undetected for years and cause literal death for the entire body! All the other organs work together to help each other except for the tongue. The tongue is the troublemaker and the person we must face head on if we want to survive. The tongue is very powerful and can harm the entire body in more ways than one. For the purpose of this chapter, we will remain focused on its taste feature and how we can address it. We must look at the tongue as its own person living inside you. This guy just does what he wants when he wants and has no filter or regulator. The main regulator should be the brain but the tongue provides so much pleasure to the brain it looks the other way even when it knows better.

For the survival of the entire body we must address this anomaly. Now that you and your brain are aware of the severity we must retrain the tongue to not blindly seek out pleasure but to find pleasure in healthy alternatives. You are a person consisting of other people inside of you. These people manifest themselves as your organs. These people depend on you to protect them and provide the necessary nutrients for them to thrive. When you do this, they reward you with high performance and messages of gratitude. When you don’t, you will feel sluggish and depressed. Yes they will let you know. We are traversing over the threshold of the allegorical to the literal here. Our awareness is widening. You must keep your people happy by giving them the proper materials to build. Your tongue is your ultimate ‘frieneny’ but we cannot just sever ties with him. We must understand him and work with him to reprogram his lust for pleasure.

Let’s take a look at a popular example, bacon. Many people consider bacon as the highest form of edible pleasure and will have no other alternative as a suitable substitute. What is bacon? Pork bacon itself is the flesh of a pig, bled out, cured and marinated in sweet spices and salts. The tongue does not care about the pig itself. It cares about the sweet spices and salts along with the fatty yet crunchy texture of the bacon. The brain helps the tongue by processing delightful memories of many morning breakfasts enjoying bacon, which provides an additional dose of pleasure. This process induces joy, which is why people love bacon. If presented with a whole pig or even just raw bacon, this would not be the case.
So is the tongue lusting for the pig? No. Is the tongue lusting for the raw bacon? No. The tongue is lusting for the pleasure of feeling the fatty yet crunchy, sweet yet salty experience of the bacon. That texture/taste combination is hard to duplicate. In addition, the brain summarily rejects any alternative by default.

Here is where we must enlist the brains’ power of internal visualization. The brain is smart enough to realize that the health consequences of eating bacon far exceed the short-lived pleasure. For the sake of the entire body, the brain must help the tongue by processing those same joyful memories when eating a proper healthy alternative to bacon. Instead of processing the differences between ‘real’ bacon and the healthy alternative, it must enjoy the healthy alternative as if it is the real thing! If this is done faithfully, the tongue will follow along and be fully satisfied as if it is enjoying real bacon.

Some may conclude that these mental exercises are merely ways to trick us into eating more lively food. That is partly true. However, how much faith you have in the trick is what makes it real. Ask yourself, what are you really missing out on; Heart disease? Diabetes? Which one of the myriad of deadly health issues would you like to gain by keeping it real? The value of replacing deadly food with equally fulfilling and delicious lively food is a blessing. With the proper spices, a rainbow of tastes can be realized and a new world of pallet pleasing paradise can be attained. You can have all the pleasure without any of the pain.
