PREFACE

Your life started this morning. Your afterlife starts tomorrow. This belief is the fundamental foundation for this book. Imagine if your conscious mind is at its base, a complicated collection of thoughts and memories. Now, imagine if your immediate world is a collection of objects, items and living things rendered and perceived by your conscious mind.

What does this have to do with diet?

In order to understand how diet works, you must first understand three things.
One, diet is not solely about what you eat. Diet is about anything you intake into your physical body. Your eyes, ears, nose, mouth, and skin all have a role in your diet.

Two, what you intake into your physical body today will play out in your life tomorrow. The wins and sins of bodily intake today will render themselves in your life tomorrow. Tomorrow is the afterlife.
Three, you are in total control of your afterlife. You have the ability to create a better tomorrow for yourself by creating wins in your life today. You also have the power to do the opposite. Your current today is your afterlife from yesterday.

Many misguided people use their bodily intake today to recover or relieve themselves from sins acquired in yesterday’s life. This has a domino affect where the next life (tomorrow) is constantly being subverted by actions acquired in the current life (today), which are reactions to sins acquired in the previous life (yesterday). To have a better afterlife one must escape from constantly seeking comfort in their current life and migrate to a better afterlife with the full faith in knowing that, although unseen, the afterlife is real and attainable.

Migration from the current life requires light suffering and a little pain. If you are afraid of light suffering and a little pain, stop reading now. This book is not for you! This book is for those who are brave enough to endure the light suffering of stepping out of their comfort space and migrating to the afterlife ahead. If you are still reading, then you are one of the chosen few. The suffering is light. The thought of suffering is more painful than the actual suffering. The pain endured will transform into an immense payoff in the afterlife. After reading this book you will be armed with the knowledge necessary to conquer your today, clean up the sins from yesterday and migrate fearlessly into a better tomorrow.

