CHAPTER ONE
THE DEADLY TRINITY

In the early stages of human evolution, we learned that things growing from the ground could yield sustenance. Humans also learned that the seeds from things grown could be redistributed back to the ground to grow more. We also learned that living things, which eat the things grown from the ground, could be killed and used for sustenance as well. This knowledge was useful when weather conditions did not allow the things growing from the ground to grow. The living things became a sort of storage container for the things growing from the ground until conditions for growth were amicable. As human civilizations grew in size, both the things grown from the ground (plants) and the living things that ate those things (animals) were used for a multitude of purposes including food, clothing, shelter, trade and thousands of other uses.

This pattern continued for thousands of years. Until, human scale grew even larger, and the idea of mass commercialization of plants and animals became the goal for the some. With mass commercialization, the goals changed. The goal was no longer to sustain the human race. The goal was to sustain the business mass-producing the “products”. The food, clothing, shelter etc. became products to sell to collect money to sustain the health of the business selling the product. The health and wellness of the humans buying the products became secondary. As long as the “food” was nutritious enough to keep the humans healthy enough to buy more products to help the business is all that really mattered. The overall long-term health of the population was inconsequential.

This pattern continues to this day. Today, commercialization urges the population to eat as many meals as possible to satisfy the insatiable economic appetite of the companies making the food products. Most humans growing into this “system” aren’t really aware of this reality unless their parents or caretakers tell them. These humans grow up to be adults with this lack of knowledge and grow to believe it is normal to eat this way.
This is the first cause of most of the health problems we see today in the human population. This cause manifests itself into over-eating, eating the wrong types of food and eating not for nutrition but for pleasure and ultimately for the overall benefit of the companies creating the food!
The second cause is the current under-active lifestyle many humans have compared to their ancestors. With this sedentary lifestyle, humans still eat as if we have to run miles to catch food or endure long winters where nutritious plants are unavailable.

The third cause is lack knowledge accompanied with lack of concern about what we intake into our bodies. If results do not manifest directly we go about our lives as if it does not matter what we eat.
Given the before mentioned causes and the years of research that went into writing this book, the concept of the deadly trinity is realized.

			GREED AND IGNORANCE 
			LACK OF ACTION AND CONCERN 
			DEADLY FOODS AND LIQUIDS

These combined entities are the root cause of most deaths, diseases and health problems including cancer, diabetes, obesity and heart disease. Let us address each entity in its entirety so we can have the necessary foundation to overcome them.

GREED AND IGNORANCE

At first glance the terms greed and ignorance may seem vague. Who’s greed and ignorance are we talking about? What does that have to do with diet and lifestyle? This part of the book is preparing you to inherit the internal fortitude you will need in order to combat your inner doubts and succeed with daily wins to migrate to your best afterlife. Part of building that fortitude is the knowledge of exactly why you are sacrificing that juicy flame broiled cheeseburger for that healthier yet equally delicious bean burger.

Who’s greed are we talking about? We are talking about the greed of the of food producers who, without regard to the health of the population, mass-produce as much food as possible as cheaply as possible to realize the highest profits. These producers will stop at nothing, including murder, to achieve their goals. Their greed is spectacular in scope. Our goal is not to stop these companies but to give you the knowledge you need to overcome the pressure to consume their products. If you really knew what their objectives were and how they are accomplishing their goals you would NEVER think about consuming their products. This same aggressive disposition could be found in the illegal drug cartel business as well as the pharmaceutical business.
These entities are greed incarnate and will do everything and anything to get people to consume. Your job is to resist. Resist the urge to help them. 

Attempt to find producers who place people over profits. At the minimum, just know that they do exist and care nothing about your health. Use that knowledge to motivate yourself to care about your health yourself. The biggest of these culprits are dairy and meat producers. Choose your food producers wisely.

Who’s ignorance are we talking about? We are talking about the ignorance of the people. If you have made it this far into the book then you are probably among the ones to have already decided not to be ignorant. The term “ignorance is bliss” is only relevant to the ones realizing bliss from the ignorance of others. Ignorance is death.

Ignorance is a major variable in the deadly trinity because without mass-ignorance the mass-producers would not succeed in fooling the population to consume their garbage. They are betting on your ignorance. As an example, while researching this book I would talk to anyone I met in my community about health, wellness and the benefits of drinking almond milk instead of dairy milk. Many times my words were ignored however, once the results were seen and people who had not seem me in a few months saw me again... they saw that the potbelly was replaced with a flatter, healthier looking stomach; they began to ask questions like “What did you do?” They began to really see that allowing products created by the dairy industry to curd up in your intestines causes the stomach area to appear bloated. Weeks later, while visiting the grocery store we noticed the demand for almond mike surge and all the almond milk shelves empty as people began to realize the truth about dairy milk.

The ignorance of parents who do not teach their children proper nutritional habits help to support generational malnutrition and dietary inequities. Children do much better in school when presented with the proper diet at home. What we learned growing up was not designed to benefit our health as much as to maximize consumerism of the food products and drive profits. This is how ignorance and greed work together to help sustain the current unhealthy situation in our communities and lives. However, unlike greed, ignorance can be destroyed. As more people become aware, ignorance will decrease. We kill ignorance by gaining knowledge. We gain knowledge by learning. The purpose of this book is to provide the reader with the tools to make the proper judgments when deciding what to eat. With the proper knowledge, finding the right foods to eat as well as knowing what foods to avoid will be very simple. By committing to finishing this book and sharing it with others, you will have done your part in helping to eradicate the deadly entity of ignorance.

-

LACK OF ACTION AND CONCERN

There are numerous books already written on why people procrastinate. The reasons for procrastination are just as numerous. In this book, the goal is to identify the context of what lack of action is and provide the internal fortitude to overcome it. Procrastination supports lack of action in that, it allows a person to feel as if some action is about to be done while not doing anything at all. Most procrastinators know they need to do something, whatever it is, but tend put it off to a later date. They feel as if they will be ready at a later time and will even do the mental calculations to figure out how much time they can procrastinate before actually having to do the work.

The deadly aspect of lack of action is that it sets back the goals that would be achieved. Many times the goals are set back so far that the damage that he action would have fixed is too great to recover from. For example, diseases like diabetes and heart disease can be self managed if the proper actions are taken early. Even cancer can be killed by ones own immune system if the proper actions are taken early. Accompanying lack of action is lack of concern. Lack of concern is a certified killer of many. Lack of concern can be a protective reaction to a seemingly overwhelming task or a symptom of an even greater problem like self hate. If people hate themselves they will care not about whatever happens to them. It is almost a form of slow suicide. 

Overeating, eating knowingly deadly foods, and hazardous activities like smoking cigarettes can be indicators of self-hate. Self-hate is not overt in most cases... it is a covert operation advanced on the subconscious mind.
If the conscious mind could understand how the sub-conscious mind was manipulating it, it could act as a regulator. However, that kind of regulation takes practice. Meditation, breathing exercises and mental visualization are ways the conscious mind can overcome the suggestions and even reprogram the sub- conscious to send the correct messages. For example, scientific studies have shown that people who can vividly and habitually visualize their bodies working out will actually see results of the imaginary workout! What does that mean? Have you ever imagined yourself doing some action, especially right before bedtime and you body reacts to that action as if you were doing it? Many times your body does not know the difference between mental visualization and actual visualization and will react accordingly.

So to the procrastinator, here is a tool to fix your lack of action. While lying in bed or swinging in your hammock or whatever it is you are doing instead of taking action, try visualizing in your minds eye yourself doing that action! Visualize it as clearly and purposefully as you can. It takes almost zero energy to do this, and if you make a habit of it, you will eventually begin to do it for real. Your body will expect it as if you were doing it for real the entire time!

Lack of concern is a different thing. To combat lack of concern you must perform a sort of ‘inception’ on yourself. In the Hollywood film ‘Inception’; the main characters are experts in entering a targets mind through dreams and convincing the target to come to some ultimate conclusion. In order to generate self-concern, you must do the same. Whatever form it takes is up to you however, it must take place for you to generate concern for yourself and your overall wellbeing. For some, it may be rewinding your personal history to discover the cause of your issue, then forgiving yourself for some past error. For others, it maybe forgiving another person for some wrong done or forgiving the universe for some perceived bad hand that was dealt.
Self-inception can take many forms but it must be done in order to generate concern for self. When love for self prevails lack of concern cannot exist. 

It may seem silly to repeat daily affirmations into the mirror like “I love you.” and “I care about you.” but just like the mental visualizations, your body does not know the difference. Confessing love for your self into the mirror will cause the same chemical reaction in your body that would occur if another person said it to you directly. Unfortunately, the reverse is the same as well. Thoughts like “I hate my waist” or “my thighs are to too big” or worse are usually said to ones self in the mirror and these comments affect the body in the same way as if a loved one says it. The body does not know he difference.

The power of self-affirmation is proven and valid. For the duration of this book, we will use positive affirmations as a tool to combat the deadly entity of lack of concern. Later in the book we will discover affirmations prescriptions that if practiced daily, will provide the necessary re-programming needed to successfully address and overcome these demons of self-sabotage.

- 

DEADLY FOODS AND LIQUIDS

In order to successfully overcome the deadly trinity, we must find a supreme reason. A reason that is stronger than simply losing weight or looking good on the beach. Those side benefits are good rewards but to defeat the powerful grasp of these deadly entities we need something stronger. The idea of doing what is necessary to move to a healthy lifestyle can conjure thoughts of sacrifice, pain and ultimately fear. This leads to procrastination, which then circles back to the original habits that caused the issues in the first place.

Later in this book, the prescription for a methodical method of attack is introduced. This prescription makes it much easier to attain wins by providing step-by-step solutions. One solution detailed is to replace certain deadly foods with healthier and many times tastier alternatives. Before we get there, we must first identify the deadly foods and liquids and provide the internal fortitude needed to replace them. The term ‘deadly foods and liquids’ was chosen after some time attempting to correctly identify this entity. The term itself contains some hint as to what types of foods to replace. However, simply listing these foods will not be enough.

Micro-particles of the foods we intake are the building blocks used to build the proteins our bodies need to grow and develop. Even further, the micro-particles and broken down into smaller nanoparticles. The nanoparticles are not broken down any further but used as they are. This means if you intake a watermelon, the literal nanoparticles of the watermelon become part of your cells. As well, if you intake pig intestines, the nanoparticles of the intestines and the things soaking into the intestines become part of your internal cellular makeup. This means the saying “you are what you eat” is literal... on a cellular level! Imagine that... stop reading for a second and contemplate that reality.

This concept is larger than just choosing from a list of foods to eat or not to eat. We must classify our foods and make smart choices each time we eat. It’s not about labeling ourselves and trying to stick to some club of food consumers. It’s about being totally aware of what we intake into our bodies. Similar to the same way we scrutinize guests into our homes we must scrutinize ‘guests’ into our bodies. This section focuses on deadly foods and liquids however, there are other access points into the body besides the mouth. Our ears, eyes and skin are also access points into the body so to be fully aware, we must maintain a classification of our foods, music, visuals and salves to find the proper overall diet.

So, what are the deadly liquids we must avoid and replace? The liquids from dairy products, including cheeses cause inflammation in the body. This includes what is widely known as a beer belly. A more accurate connotation would be cow belly.

Plainly stated, ‘cow milk’ must be replaced by alternative milks. In the prescription chapter, this is actually the first step... and for some the hardest. Milk and cheese are among the deadly liquids. It is safer to classify any liquid excreted or bled from an animal is deadly. This categorization may seem over reaching however; it is much easier to classify all animal secretions as deadly than to scroll through an itemized list. So, how do you make sure no animal secretions are used when eating out?

Fortunately for us, we live in a time where the term ‘vegan’ is adopted and has gained mainstream support. The secret cheat code is, you don’t have to be a Vegan to consume vegan products. When you specify selection of vegan products you can guarantee that no animal secretions or bleedings were used in the food. The same is true for animal flesh, brains, bones, eyes and intestines. These products can rot in the human gut and take weeks to fully digest. This internal intestinal environment provides the perfect breeding ground for parasites and other nasty microorganisms. These bugs can even hijack the nervous system and send messages to the brain.

This book is a not book about going vegan or even vegetarian. It is a fact-based exploration into diet, health and the lifestyle choices that lead to a longer, healthier life. Research has shown and life experience has proven that moving from a deadly diet to a lively diet will give your body what it needs to build the necessary building blocks of life. These building blocks help fortify the immune system, which will clean your body of any internal trespassers.

Moving from a deadly diet to a lively diet using this book will give you a step-by- step, gradual elimination and replacement plan. At every step, you will know what to eliminate and what to replace it with to enjoy the least amount of sacrifice.

Knowledge, self-love and intake awareness are the three keys that will unlock a new level of existence in your life. It will be easy to make the right choices if all three are fully realized. Imagine if you owned a brand new luxury vehicle or sports car. You would give it the best gas. You would make sure anyone entering your vehicle is clean enough to not ruin your seats. You would clean it inside and out weekly if not daily. Your body is that vehicle.



